
# self_assessment

As a member of the team Eat.Sleep.Data my role was the project manager but I also did a significant amount of work in various areas, including (but not limited to) the data cleaning process and the machine learning model development, comparisons, analysis, and reporting.  Although the course instructed our team to follow a more rigid set of roles denoted as circle, square, triangle, or X role, our instructor encouraged our team to follow our own initiative and creativity in selecting roles for the project.  As the project manager I worked to ensure that our project was headed in the right direction, that our files were highly organized, and that we all communicated to maintain clear and cohesive direction.  For the machine learning models, I organized and conducted the four baseline model comparisons on the same metrics for the Random Forest Regressor, XG Boost, Deep Neural Networks, Multiple Linear regression, collaborated on the feature reduction process, and conducted the final model comparisons between the Random Forest Regressor and the Deep Neural Networks.

As for the roles that other team members focused on, I contributed to each element with team discussions and input about how to incorporate each aspect together.  As a few examples, I offered input on the design aspects of the website, discussed how the database worked with the data, how it could be deployed, and communicated about essentially every aspect of the project with each team member.  There isn't really any aspect of the project of which I didn't have a role in some way.  As for my greatest personal challenge through this project, I suspect it might be managing effective communication along with each team member.  Essentially, our group had 6 team members and each of them were enthusiastic, high-achievers.  Overall, this is a good thing but it also meant that as the project manager I had to work hard to ensure all six of our hard-working minds were on the same page in an organized fashion while maintaining a positive and productive atmosphere.

# Team Assessment

For our team's communication protocols we used various mediums and patterns.  Our primary communication was done on "Discord" in which free and open discussion was always encouraged.  We also had many impromptu as well as planned zoom calls outside of class.  We used "Trello" to organize to-do lists and to keep track of what activities had been completed, were in current progress, and which tasks had reached completion.  Despite all of these great communication mediums, one challenge our group faced was that despite all of these communication mediums some tasks would still be worked on at the same time by multiple people at times.  It didn't happen so often that it was a major problem but it did cause us improve our communication in order to ensure we were on the same page.  Once we established a pattern of working and communicating well together, this issue improved after some time.  Another challenge our group faced included the technical aspect of choosing the best model.  Once we figured out that the mean absolute error could be used to compare each model this helped us overcome the challenge of choosing the best model.  Of course, we also compared other metrics as well but the mean absolute error was easily and meaningfully insightful for every model.  If I were to conduct a project of similar magnitude again, "next time" I would consider working in a slightly smaller group (as it would be easier to establishes clearer and more manageable roles) and I would work even harder on the cleaning stage in the beginning as our group found we had to keep revisiting the cleaning once we caught different things throughout the project.

As far as our group strengths, I think we had many.  For one, we were all very dedicated and motivated.  I think this is paramount to success as it's best if everyone takes out time to ensure they are available, contributing, and communicative.  Second, I think our group had a pretty good grasp on the technical aspects of the coding process from what we had learn ed from the course.  If I were to share one tip to a new cohort kicking of the same project, I would suggest they focus really hard on the cleaning stage as a group from the beginning before moving on to other stages.  This could save time and trouble in the long run.

# Summary of the Project

The purpose of the project was to retrieve airbnb data from 2019 in Nashville, clean it, choose a machine learning model for predicting the price with the best accuracy possible, and to deploy that model on a website that would allow users to select among a small amount of important features in order to aid the user in choosing a good price for their short-term rental.  From our group experiments of controlled metric comparisons of various models, the random forest regressor performed the best for predicting the price given the airbnb dataset we used.  Although the model's predictive accuracy may still warrant improvement, the result of the analysis produced a model with a mean absolute error of about 57 which means the model was able to predict an airbnb price that was, on average, off by about 57 dollars.  Overall, the model worked successfully for our website to aid a prospective user in choosing a price for their short-term rental in Nashville.